Hi! My name is Nate McCullough on behalf of
expertvillage.com. In this clip we are going
to talk about one of the braking components
that need inspected any time brake service
is performed. The component we are going to
talk about in this clip is your brake and
rotor. That's this large steel disc you see
here. There are several things that can go
wrong with this rotor. This vehicle in particular
has been parked for an extended amount of
time. As you can see there is a large amount
of surface rust all the way around the rotor.
You can actually see where the pads were.
That's where the rotor happened to be stopped
when I parked the car. This amount of surface
rust is going to ruin the rotor. You will
never be able to machine this out. You might
be able to cut it out but it is going to put
it under specification. There is another problem
you may run across with a brake rotor. If
you do a lot of in town driving. A lot in
town driving requires a lot of stopping. That
can build up excessive heat in this rotor
and cause it to warp. If your rotor is warped
more than .005 you will be able to feel it
when you apply the brakes. The brake pedal
will pulsate. When you apply it, it will push
back at you as the wheel rotates into the
pads and you have them applied that warped
or fat spot will cause a hydraulic pressure
surge. It will force the pads apart cause
that surge to go backwards through the system,
through the master cylinder and into your
brake pedal. At higher speeds you will also
notice the warpage when you apply the brakes
in the steering wheel. It may cause the whole
vehicle to shake and shutter and you definitely
will fill it up front. If it happens to be
a front rotor, you will feel the vibration
transferred through the steering linkage into
the steering wheel. Some of them can shake
quite violently. If the warpage happens to
occur only in the rear of the vehicle, you
will notice it more so in the coming from
the back of the vehicle. There is another
type of failure you are going to want to look
for which are any kind of cracks. That again
are going to indicate excessive heat or excessive
wear. If the rotor has been worn too thin
for machine work, it is not able to dissipate
properly. When you machine a rotor you are
actually removing metal, making it a small
thinner part. In my opinion, it under minds
the structural integrity of the rotor. It
will cause small flake style cracks to appear
all over the surface of the rotor. That is
one thing you are going to want to look for.
It will indicate a bad rotor and mean it needs
replaced.